# Euclid

This script generates six different Euclidean rhythms, one on each output. The length, number of
steps, and rotation of each pattern can be independently adjusted.

## I/O Assignments

- `ain`: external CV control (if configured)
- `din`: external clock input
- `b1`: manual clock input
- `b2`: Menu navigation
- `k1`: manual CV control (if configured)
- `k2`: Channel select, menu navigation
- `cv1` to `cv6`: euclidean rhythm outputs

Long-pressing B2 will switch between the visualization and menu mode.  While in menu mode, K2 will
scroll through the available menu options. Short-press B2 to edit a setting, rotate K2 to choose the
desired value, then press B2 again to apply it.

All settings can be assigned either `Knob` or `AIN` as their value. When so-assigned, rotating K1
or applying voltage to AIN will automatically select a valid option from the setting. e.g. setting
CV1's `Pulses` setting to `AIN` will allow voltage sent to `AIN` to choose the number of pulses
generated by CV1.

## Settings

- Steps: the number of steps in the pattern (1-32)
- Pulses: the number of pulses in the pattern (0-steps)
- Rotation: rotate the pattern a set number of steps (0-steps)
- Skip %: The probability that any given pulse will be skipped

## Defaults

The script will initialize the six outputs with the following patterns by default:
- CV1: 8 steps, 5 pulses
- CV2: 16 steps, 7 pulses
- CV3: 16 steps, 11 pulses
- CV4: 32 steps, 9 pulses
- CV5: 32 steps, 15 pulses
- CV6: 32 steps, 19 pulses

The default patterns all have the rotation and skip set to zero.

The defaults can be edited through the settings menu, with any custom settings
re-applied automatically when the script restarts.

## Screensaver

After 20 minutes the screen will automatically go blank.  Pressing either button
or rotating either knob will wake the screen up and return to the channel menu.
